<h2> CS 540 - Database Management Systems - Winter 2020 </h2>


Sharing, analyzing, and processing data in digital forms are essential parts of our professional, social, and personal lives. Companies make almost all their business decisions based on computerized data analyses. Recent scientific discoveries were not possible if not for the programs that help scientists to share and analyze the large volumes of the data generated from scientific experiments. Natural and social scientists use these programs to study the characteristics of diseases, the behaviors of physical phenomena, and the properties of human communities. We often use geographical information systems applications (map apps) on our cell phones to find our ways to restaurants, hotels, and classes!

In this course, we will review and analyze the fundamental ideas that make these amazing advancements possible. We discuss the challenges of managing, querying, and analyzing large volumes of various data sets and study the principles and algorithms used to address these challenges. The course is graduate-level and research-based and focuses on building new data systems and developing novel data and query models through discussing classic and new research papers in the area of data management and analytics. The list of topics and papers covered in the course can be found in the "Schedule" page of the course website. Please note that the schedule is tentative and subject to change. You will get the chance to solve an interesting problems and apply the ideas you have learned by doing a small research project for the course.

In order to take this course, you should know the basics of data management, such as relational model, relational algebra, database programing, and schema design . The course is lecture-based. Grading is based on assignments, midterm examination, paper review & discussion, and final project. For more information about the course prerequisites and policy, please see "Administrative Information" page of the course website.
